765 'ChatRoom' & 'ChatMessage' contexts and 'SendChatMessage' Intent (#794)
finos/FDC3: docs/context/ref/ChatRoom.md

---
id: ChatRoom
sidebar_label: ChatRoom
title: Contact
hide_title: true
---
# `ChatRoom`

Reference to a chat room.

## Type

`fdc3.chat.room`

## Schema

https://fdc3.finos.org/schemas/next/chatRoom.schema.json

## Details

| Property    | Type    | Required | Example Value     |
|-------------|---------|----------|-------------------|
| `type`      | string  | Yes      | `'fdc3.chat.room'`  |
| `providerName`      | string  | Yes       | `'Symphony'`      |
| `id`  | object  | Yes       | `{ roomId: 'j75xqXy25NBOdacUI3FNBH', anyOtherKey: 'abcdef'}` |
| `uri` | string  | No       | `'http://symphony.com/ref/room/j75xqXy25NBOdacUI3FNBH___pqSsuJRdA'`      |
| `name` | string  | No       | `'My new room'`      |

> The `uri` is an universal url to access to the room. It could be opened from a browser, a mobile app, etc...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `uri` field should be populated with a URL to access the room, which may be used outside of the context of a Desktop Agent (for example in a browser, mobile application etc.).
```

Minor comment: is it expected to be a URL or URI? All URLs are URIs but not all URIs are URLs (although I don't know many people that are clear on the distinction). If its always expected to be retreivable in a browser (taking you to a web page where you can access teh item) rather than just acting as an identity, then its a URL (and should be named as such).

## Example

```js
const intentResolution = await fdc3.raiseIntent("StartChat", context);

const chatRoom = intentResolution.getResult():

/* // The chatRoom will be like:
  chatRoom = {
    type: "fdc3.chat.room",
    providerName: "Symphony",
    id: {
        roomId: "j75xqXy25NBOdacUI3FNBH"
    }
    uri: "http://symphony.com/ref/room/j75xqXy25NBOdacUI3FNBH___pqSsuJRdA",
    name: 'My new room'
  };
*/
```

## See Also

Other Types
- [ContactList](ContactList)

Intents
- [StartChat](../../intents/ref/StartChat)
- [StartCall](../../intents/ref/StartCall)
- [SendChatMessage](../../intents/ref/SendChatMessage)
- [ViewProfile](../../intents/ref/ViewProfile)
- [ViewResearch](../../intents/ref/ViewResearch)
- [ViewInteractions](../../intents/ref/ViewInteractions)
- [ViewOrders](../../intents/ref/ViewOrders)

FINOS Financial Objects

> - [Contact](https://fo.finos.org/docs/objects/contact)

Reviewer 2: Above has been resolved.
